[CI:DOCS] added docs for installing certificate authority (#15173)
containers/podman: docs/tutorials/podman-install-certificate-authority.md

![PODMAN logo](../../logo/podman-logo-source.svg)

Install Certificate Authority
=============================

> Organizations may create their own local certificate authority (CA) or acquire one from a third party.  This may mean more than one certificate such as one or more intermediate certificates and a root certificat for example.  In any case, there is a need to add the certificate authority (CA) certificate(s) such that it can be employed for various use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organizations may create their own local certificate authority (CA) or acquire one from a third party.  This may mean more than one certificate, such as one or more intermediate certificates and a root certificate, for example.  In any case, it is necessary to add the certificate authority (CA) certificate(s) so that it can be employed for various use cases.
```

### Method one

> The following steps are one method to add such certificates to podman.  It is assumed that podman is running and the certificate(s) to be installed are available on an accessible server via curl.  If such access is not possible, an alternative method follows.  Certificates may be either individual or concatenated (bundles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certificates may be either individual or concatenated (bundles). The following steps are one method to add such certificates to Podman.  It is assumed that Podman is running and the certificate(s) to be installed are available on an accessible server via curl.  If such access is not possible, an alternative method follows.
```

> First, assuming a running podman machine, ssh into the machine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, assuming a running Podman machine, ssh into the machine:
```

```
podman machine ssh
```

> Next while in the machine, change to the directory where the certificate(s) should be installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, while in the machine, change to the directory where the certificate(s) should be installed:
```

```
[root@localhost ~]# cd /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors
```

Then use curl to download the certificate.  Notes:
* the -k is only necessary if connecting securely to a server for which the certificate is not yet trusted

> * the MY-SERVER.COM/SOME-CERTIFICATE.pem should be replaced as appropriate

Reviewer: suggestion for consideration.  I'd captialize the 't" in the first word "the" in both bullet points.

Author: done

```
[root@localhost anchors]# curl -k -o some-certificate.pem https://MY-SERVER.COM/SOME-CERTIFICATE.pem
```

> Repeat as/if necessary for multiple certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat as necessary for multiple certificates.
```

> Once all of the certicates have been downloaded, run the command to add the certificates to the list of trusted CAs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all of the certificates have been downloaded, run the command to add the certificates to the list of trusted CAs:
```

```
[root@localhost anchors]# update-ca-trust
```

Exit the machine:
```
[root@localhost anchors]# exit
```

### Alternative Method

> If the above method is for some reaon not pratical or desirable, the certificate may be created using vi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the above method is for some reason not practical or desirable, the certificate may be created using vi.
```

Reviewer: You might consider "vi" -> "vi or your choice of editor"

> As above, assuming a running podman machine, ssh into the machine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As above, assuming a running Podman machine, ssh into the machine:
```

```
podman machine ssh
```

Next while in the machine, change to the directory where the certificate(s) should be installed:
```
[root@localhost ~]# cd /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors
```

Then use vi to create the certificate.
```
[root@localhost ~]# vi SOME-CERTIFICATE.pem
```

> After vi opens, copy the certifcate to the clipboard then in insert mode, paste the clipboard contents to vi.  Lastly, save the file and close vi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After vi opens, copy the certificate to the clipboard, then in insert mode, paste the clipboard contents to vi.  Lastly, save the file and close vi.
```

> Repeat as/if necessary for multiple certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Repeat as necessary for multiple certificates.
```

> Once call of the certicates have been created, run the command to add the certificates to the list of trusted CAs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all of the certificates have been created, run the command to add the certificates to the list of trusted CAs:
```

```
[root@localhost anchors]# update-ca-trust
```

Exit the machine:
```
[root@localhost anchors]# exit
```

### Final Notes

> The certificate installation will persist machine restarts.  There is no need to stop and start the machine to begin using it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certificate installation will persist during machine restarts.  There is no need to stop and start the machine to begin using the certificate. 
```
